Hi there. This is Chris and in this
video we are going to look at the
file system for the Myth computers which happens
to be, simply a tree just like you
would have learned in CS one zero six
b. The tree that has a root and
has all these children and the children are
files and directories and so forth and that's
how the file system is built. And we're
gonna take a quick look at this and
see a couple different ways of looking at
it. But in other videos like the CD
change directory and the LS list directory videos,
you can see more details about how you
actually navigate the tree. We're gonna take a
look at this. So I have me logged
on to the myth system and I have
a folder called CS one zero seven. And
in that folder, have an assignments folder, which
I just kind of made up. And if
I take the command tree assignments, then what
it does it lists all the folders and
directories and files underneath the assignments. So as
you can see assignments here has one child,
two children, three, four, five, six, seven different
children, their files and directories and some of
them have multiple files in them, some have
a folder with another file in them. Assignment
one here has a bunch of children called
file one, file two dot txt folder one
and folder two and then folder one has
a child called my program. So that's really
the structure of the the system here. You
can actually type another command tree dash f,
which will give you a little bit oops.
Tree dash f assignments, which will give you
a little bit more information about that. And
in this case, it gives you, some little
trailing characters at the end of some of
the names. If it if a name ends
with a slash, it means it's a directory.
If a name ends with a asterisk, it
actually means that it is executable or runnable.
It's an app of some sort. And we're
actually gonna try that out in a minute.
And then all the other files all the
other names are just files. In fact, can
look at the tilde one here. This is
not has nothing to do with the file
system. It's just the name of the file
hello dot c tilde, which is a backup
file that, some editors like VIM, create. So
that's that's the tree structure. If you wanted
to go to the actual root of the
tree, that's the slash file. And if you
look at this, there's there's all these files
you may not have any idea what they
mean, but they are, this is the root
of the root of the entire file system
and you only have access to certain parts
of the file system. But it's pretty big.
It's, we're talking like thousands of people at
Stanford on this one file system. So it's
a gigantic file system. Okay? I will actually
go back to my, my regular working directory,
which is part of this is where my
directory lives on the file system. And there's
a main directory and then subdirectory, subdirectory, subdirectory,
subdirectory, and then my my directory. And you're
in your directory you actually have access to
all the files in your directory. Okay, so
let's actually take a look again at CS107
and then assignments here and we can actually
do an LS and this LS is list
files, this actually just shows you all the
files. But again if you wanna see more
details you can type tree and get all
the details there, can type tree dash f
and get more details or you can do
l s dash l which you'll see in
the l s the l s video as
well. There's two specific files. If we actually
do l s dash al, there's two specific
files here which are important for the file
system. The first one is the dot and
dot is just a the name for the
current directory. So whatever current directory you're in,
that is the dot directory. Okay. The dot
dot directory is your parent directory. Okay. So
if we go back, let's go back to
10 7 and if we do l s,
there's two two files in here, assignments and
old, they both have to be folders. And
by the way, ls also has a dash
f to give you a little more information,
dash uppercase f. And, there's two folders in
here. If we go into assignments and we
do ls dash al, notice that we've got
dot and dot dot. If we do ls
dot dot, that means give us a directory
of our parent which was c which is
C S 1 0 7. And guess what?
If we do that, it's assignments and old
because the we are the assignments folder and
the one above is CS107. So that's what
dot dot means. Now why do you care
about the parent directory or the current directory?
Well, it's useful when you talk about relative
paths which is also another video that you
can look in. Okay. We also use the
current directory in a very specific way. Let's
see if we do tree again and if
we go into assignment zero and in here
we've got a bunch of, things. Notice that
we have the hello program. Okay, this is
just a program that I wrote that says
hello world and because it has the x
before it had an asterisk, but because it
has an x on here, it means that
we can execute it and it's a runnable
app and instead of just saying hello, which
will say, the program hello cannot be found,
then you could have them try to install
it, but it's not currently installed. But we
have a hello here. Well, how do you
actually run that? You type dot slash hello,
and that says run the hello program in
my current directory and that you will use
this command a billion times in c s
one zero seven. Anyway, you run dot slash
hello and it says okay, I know exactly
where that file is and that's the one
I'm going to run. And in the, video
on paths, you can, see how to actually
modify things so that your path is is,
where it can find certain files a little
bit easier if you if you really want
to. But anyway, the dot is just the
ls dot would be the same as just
saying ls because it's the same directory but
it gives you a way to refer to
your own directory explicitly. So that's that. That's
the file system is a tree and you
will become very familiar with that tree as
you go through CS107. Thanks.